Here is an overview of our organization’s structure, roles, and the core functions we’re looking to streamline through a new website or software system.
The Jewish Gymnastics League (JGL) is an inter-gymnastics league composed of independently operated gymnastics centers across 8+ cities. Each gym operates as a separate business but participates in the league through a dual membership structure:
Gym Membership – Each participating gym is a member of the JGL.
Individual Membership – Gymnasts can only become JGL members if their gym designates them as competitive team gymnasts.
Our current website is https://jglgymnastics.com/. The new landing page should offer similar information, allowing people to learn about the league, register for membership (either gym or gymnast) or purchase tickets for events. The new website will allow gyms to join the league, manage their athletes, and register for events, all from one convenient online platform. For athletes and their families, the website will make it simple to see upcoming events, register with the league, and even join in fun challenges that encourage participation and improvement. Coaches will have powerful tools to oversee their teams and approve gymnast activities, reducing paperwork and keeping everything organized. Meanwhile, league administrators will be able to handle memberships, events, ticketing, and communications with much less manual work than before. All users will interact with a secure, personalized dashboard, depending on their role (league admin, specific gym admin, coach, gymnast). The system will also make it easy to send targeted emails, sell tickets, and even track engagement through a gamified member area
Current JGL functions that the system should handle: 
1. Membership Management
Gym Approval & Vetting: Gyms register for membership on the website and then it must be approved by the league admin. There should be a registration form that includes information such as First and last name of team administrator, team name, city, email, link to website (optional). They must also pay for gym/club membership ($150).   Once approved, they have access to the full coach dashboard with additional team administrator information specific to their team such as payment information, event hosting schedule, and the full JGL handbook (document). 
Coach Dashboard: Once a gym is approved, they can invite one other coach to have a coach user account as well. 
Gymnast Verification: Approved gyms upload a roster spreadsheet or fill a form for team gymnasts (with details like first name, last name, birthdate, level, team affiliation ). The system creates accounts for these gymnasts and sends them confirmation emails and login instructions for their user dashboard. 
There is also an option for gymnasts to register by submitting their details on the website ( first name, last name, birthdate, level, team affiliation). When they apply it shows up on their specific coach’s dashboard (for example if a gymnast from team spring applies, only the team spring coach sees it), they coach can choose approve or reject. If approved the gymnast gets an email confirmation with log in instructions. If rejected, the gymnast also gets an email notification. This option can be toggled on or off by the admin for each gym. (For example, team spring can choose to allow gymnasts to self register, while team flipping forward has to be uploaded by coaches only). 
Based on provided information, system can differentiate between types of gymnasts. For instance, team gymnasts need to be approved by coach etc, but non team gymnasts can sign up for a fee and participate only in the gamified challenges with none of the other features (can’t register for events etc), and pre-team gymnasts can be labeled as such and uploaded by coach to register for the “fun meet” once a year. 
Siblings: Parents can create one portal with multiple siblings and can choose which dashboard to access. 
Ongoing Updates: Throughout the season, gyms submit gymnast changes (e.g., level upgrades), which can be approved by the coach. Coaches can also create changes that automatically update across all user dashboards. All changes are tracked and logged. With any change, the league admin, coach and gymnast get automatic notifications. 

2.  Coach Dashboard & Approvals Purpose: To give coaches oversight and control over their own gym’s athletes, registrations, and activities. 
Functionality: ● Team Management: ○ Coaches see a real-time list of their own gymnasts. ○ Can edit/update athlete information as needed. Can approve/reject as needed. ○  can sort and view by birthdate, level, etc. 
 ● Approval Flows: ○ All gymnast registrations (league membership, events) require coach approval before confirmation. ○ Coaches receive notifications for pending approvals. 
● Event Oversight: ○ Coaches see which of their gymnasts are registered for upcoming events. ○ Can export team lists and monitor event participation.
● Coaches can view the team and individual points accrued on the gamified area for gymnasts, see more on this below. 

 Integration: Approvals directly impact Membership status and Event Registration confirmation. Also feeds into Engagement and Communication tools.
3. Gym/club administrator dashboard: As above, has all functions of their gym’s coach dashboard, as well as membership history, and interactive hosting dashboards. 
Documents such as the how to host a JGL meet as well as the hosting guidelines should be posted for all gyms to view,  as well as example letters/templates to coaches and gymnasts. there should be a hosting calendar with slots that gyms have to select before being fully approved for membership. The league admin manages and opens the slots that are available to host and can turn on and off this function, and post the upcoming schedules. 
To open registration for an upcoming event, gyms need to input data including name of meet, logo, date, location, time of sessions, levels in each session, number of allowed spectator tickets per session, date to open registration and close registration and price per sepctator seat.The event needs to be approved by league admin before becoming active. Registration for gymnasts is always $100 and gymnasts can only register for the correct session for their level. Host gyms, coaches and gymnasts can never see money calcuations or data, only the league admin can see that information. They also need to input data relevant to their event so the league admin can see, such as meet director name and contact, and any other details. 
Host gyms need to select an opening date and deadline by which all other gyms need to submit an estimate number of gymnasts that would be attending per level. This information is then viewable by league admin and host gym of the upcoming event. The rules about submitting estimated gymnasts will be clearly posted:
 *Please note that the submitted list (as above) will be used by the host team to plan rotation schedules and session times. While it is understood that the list may change due to factors like injuries, scheduling issues, or level changes, any deviation of more than 4 gymnasts in either direction (whether fewer or more) will have a significant economic impact on the host gym. Just prior to confirming the schedule and judges the host gym will send out one final warning. Any team with a final deviation of more than 4 gymnasts will be required to pay a fee of $50 per gymnast (above 4 gymnasts) to the host gym to offset these losses.


3. Event Management & Registration
 Purpose: To simplify and digitize the process of creating events, managing registrations, and tracking participation. 
Functionality: ● Event Creation: backend form created by host gym as above and then approved and edited by the league admin○ Events are then published to the website for eligible users. 
● Event Registration: ○ Gymnasts (or coaches on their behalf, each can choose which process they prefer. If a gym chooses to register their gymnasts, they can pay in bulk.) register online for events. ○ Registration remains “pending” until coach approval. ○ After approval, the system updates the registration and confirms the gymnast’s spot. The gymnast gets an automatic email confirming the registration as well as a “ticket” to the event that lists the correct session and time. 
Gymnasts can only register for one session per event. 
Coaches can view the specific registered gymnasts for an event with realtime updates as they are made from their team only, sort by level, age etc, see sunregistered gymnasts from their team. 
● Event Registration:Gymnasts can purchase spectator seats to specific sessions through their portal, or add to waitlist when full. Additionally, public spectators can purchase spectator tickets from the landing website without needing a full user portal. They can have a basic account to view ticekt sales, request cancelation, etc. Once a spectator ticket is sold, the owner gets an email with the tickets, number of tickets and correct session time. 
Spectator limits and limit per person to purchase can be set and toggled by the league admin only. 
 ● Accuracy Checks: ○ The system checks registrations against approved gymnast lists, reducing errors and manual reviews. Integration: Connects to Membership data, Coach Dashboard (for approvals), Ticketing (for spectators), and Communication (for reminders/updates).
  ○ Each event page displays ticket purchase options for spectators. ○ Supports multiple ticket types (adult, child, family, etc.) if needed. ● Online Payments: ○ Payments collected securely via integrated gateways (e.g., Stripe). ● Tracking & Management: ○ league admins can track ticket sales and download entry lists for event day check-in.
4. Score Tracking: League admin can import gymnast scores after each event and system can track them. Gymnasts can see all their prior scores in their individual portal, if a gymnast scores out of a level (e.g. achieves a qualifying score 3 times), her account would be flagged so her coach and league knows it’s time to move her up a level. 
AA score out rules are as follows: Any gymnast who scores a 25.50 AA or higher on levels 3-4 and 26.50 or higher on levels 6-7 at 3 meets (even non-consecutively) will not be allowed to continue competing at that level. Skipping a competition or competing at the next level is at the discretion of each individual coach.  The JGL board reserves the right to adjust the required AA score for a specific meet if the score threshold requires doing so.   If a gymnast competes in the wrong age division, her scores are invalid for the meet (may not be used for All-Around, Individual Events); however, the score achieved may be used for level mobility and Team Awards. b) DROPPING BACK THROUGH THE LEVELS  Once a gymnast has competed at least once on a level, she may NOT drop back to a lower level, EVEN though skills may have been lost due to unforeseen circumstances.  If an injury occurred, skipping competitions will be at the discretion of each individual coach.   
 
5. Email Communications
We regularly send out promotional emails to all league members and gymnasts throughout the year (e.g., event announcements, league news).
We also send targeted and custom graphic email updates to specific groups such as:
Registered gymnasts for an upcoming event
Active members
Gym admins/coaches
Functionality: ● Bulk Email Campaigns: ○ Send announcements to all members, all gymnasts, or custom segments. ● Targeted Messaging: ○ Email specific groups (e.g., only those registered for an event, only coaches, only admins). ● Custom Graphics and Templates: ○ Option to attach images or use rich formatting in messages. ● Automated Triggers: ○ Confirmation, approval, and reminder emails are sent automatically after key actions. Integration: Connected to all user data modules for segmentation and automated communication.
6. Member gamified area
Purpose: To encourage participation and create a sense of community and friendly competition among gymnasts of all gyms. 
Functionality: ● Challenges: ○ League admins create skill-based challenges (e.g., “Complete 20 pushups). Coaches can also publish challenges and it will be labeled as a “coaches challenge” from that team for everyone to earn.  ○ Challenges can be published for all, or made specific per level. 
Gymnasts can view challenges available to them based on level and log their participation via the website. Challenges are assigned points and gymnasts earn the points when challenge is completed. 
There is a store page with prizes listed which the league admin only can add prizes with pictures and assign “price of points” they can also open and close the store, when open gymnasts can click redeem, when they choose a certain prize and confirm it, they receive an email with details how to get it and the points deduct from their points. Gymnasts can only buy if they have enough points. 
● Leaderboards: ○ Tracks top-performing gymnasts by points earned from completing challenges. ○ Visible to all logged-in members, encouraging engagement. Have leaderboards based on level, team, and overall, as well as league admin can publish special awards such as “highest earner of the week” etc.  Coaches can Track engagement over time for their athletes. 
integration: Connects with League admin (for creation and review as well as store front and redeemable) Coach Dashboard (for creation and review), Membership (user accounts), and Communication (for notifications and results)
 
7. Payment 
Goal: To securely handle all financial transactions (event registration, ticket sales) within the platform. Functionality: ● Payment Methods: ○ Integrate with major payment gateways (like Stripe or similar). ● Automated Receipts: ○ Generate and email receipts after every successful payment. ● Payment Tracking: ○ League admin can see reports on all transactions for accounting and auditing. Gym admins and gymnasts can see their transaction history in their portal. 
8. League. Admin Controls & Reporting Purpose: To give league administrators full oversight and the ability to manage, monitor, and report on all aspects of the platform. User Management: ○ Add, remove, or edit user accounts and roles. ● Data Export: ○ Export membership, registration, ticketing, and engagement data as needed. ● Reporting Dashboards: ○ Visual summaries of league activity, registrations, ticket sales, and engagement. ● System Settings: ○ Control platform-wide configurations, permissions, and notification templates. Integration: Has access to all data in the system for complete management and oversight.
League admin can set automated reminders to users, such as a reminder to coaches when registration opens to review their gymnast list, and another before it closes to confirm their registrations. And reminders to gymnast to register, complete challenges, etc. 



